#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble


%\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1.5}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Reading for Nov.
 9 section discussion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of this problem is to think carefully about the design and interpretati
on of simulation studies.
 In particular, we'll work with Chen et al.
 (2012), a recent article in JASA (the Journal of the American Statistical
 Association), which is a leading statistics journal.
 The article is available as PDF under the 'section' directory on Github.
 Read the first two pages and Section 4 of the article, as well as Sections
 4 and 5 of the Unit 10 class notes.
 You don't need to understand their algorithm for testing the null hypothesis
 [i.e., you can treat it as some black box algorithm], though it may help
 to skim through some of the material on the algorithm for context.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
What are the goals of their simulation study and what are the metrics that
 they consider in assessing their method?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
What choices did the authors have to make in designing their simulation
 study? What are the key aspects of the data generating mechanism that likely
 affect the statistical power of the test?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Suggest some alternatives to how the authors designed their study.
 Are there data-generating scenarios that they did not consider that would
 be useful to consider?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Give some thoughts on how to set up a simulation study for their problem
 that uses principles of basic experimental design (see the Unit 10 notes)
 or if you think it would be difficult, say why.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Do their figures/tables do a good job of presenting the simulation results
 and do you have any alternative suggestions for how to do this? Do the
 authors address the issue of simulation uncertainty/simulation standard
 errors and/or do they convince the reader they've done enough simulation
 replications?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Interpret their tables on power (Tables 4 and 6) - do the results make sense
 in terms of how the power varies as a function of the data generating mechanism
?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Discuss the extent to which they follow JASA's guidelines on simulation
 studies (see the end of the Unit 10 class notes for the JASA guidelines).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
