#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[unicode=true]{hyperref}
\usepackage{/accounts/gen/vis/paciorek/latex/paciorek-asa,times,graphics}
\input{/accounts/gen/vis/paciorek/latex/paciorekMacros}
%\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1.5}
\hypersetup{unicode=true, pdfusetitle,bookmarks=true,bookmarksnumbered=false,bookmarksopen=false,breaklinks=false,pdfborder={0 0 1},backref=false,colorlinks=true,}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Unit 8: Parallel Processing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Enumerate
multicore vs.
 distributed vs GPU
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
foreach (see modelLongFitPPpar.q in extremes) [test out with SNOW, multicore,
 maybe Rmpi on SCF] (be careful with memory since it loads up the cores/processo
rs)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
snowfall package
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Schmidberger M, Morgan M, Eddelbuettel D, Yu H, Tierney L, Mansmann U (2009).
 "State of the Art in Parallel Computing with R." Journal of Statistical
 Software, 31(1), 1­27.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
threading - test with openBLAS by requesting more threads on SCF
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
manual parallel processing (see batch package in R)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
bigmem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
map-reduce
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
parallel RNG
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Computer architecture
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Computers now come with multiple processors for doing computation.
 Basically, physical constraints have made it harder to keep increasing
 the speed of individual processors, so the chip industry is now putting
 multiple processing units in a given computer and trying/hoping to rely
 on implementing computations in a way that takes advantage of the multiple
 processors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Everyday personal computers often have more than one processor (more than
 one chip) and on a given processor, often have more than one core (multi-core).
 A multi-core processor has multiple processors on a single computer chip.
 On personal computers, all the processors and cores share the same memory.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Supercomputers and computer clusters generally have tens, hundreds, or thousands
 of 'nodes', linked by a fast local network.
 Each node is essentially a computer with its own processor(s) and memory.
 Memory is local to each node (distributed memory).
 One basic principle is that communication between a processor and its memory
 is much faster than communication between processors with different memory.
 An example of a modern supercomputer is the Edison supercomputer at Lawrence
 Berkeley National Lab, which has 5576 nodes, each with two processors and
 each processor with 12 cores, giving 133,824 total processing cores.
 Each node has 64 Gb of memory for a total of 357 Tb.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is little practical distinction between multi-processor and multi-core
 situations.
 The main issue is whether processes share memory or not.
 In general, I won't distinguish between cores and processors.
 We'll just focus on the number of cores on given personal computer or a
 given node in a cluster.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Parallel processing with shared memory
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The core content on parallel processing that we'll cover in the course is
 in the tutorial on basic parallel processing in R, Python, Matlab and C:
 see 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
target "https://github.com/berkeley-scf/tutorial-parallel-basics"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You can ignore the material in the tutorial that is related to Python, Matlab,
 and C for the purpose of this course.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For now, you can also ignore the section on random number generation as
 we'll be talking about that in the simulation unit in a couple weeks.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Other approaches to parallel processing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Other approaches to parallel processing include:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
GPUs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Spark and Hadoop
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Tools in R, Python and Matlab that allow for parallelizing loops across
 multiple machines
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Distributed computing using MPI
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The tutorial on basic parallel processing has some links to information
 on these topics.
 Unfortunately, except for Spark, we won't have time in this course to go
 into these topics.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Using an Amazon Web Services EC2 virtual machine
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have a small grant from Amazon to use their EC2 service for class work.
 Mostly this will be used for Spark, but you can also use it for parallel
 processing on a single machine, either to test out the code in the parallel
 processing tutorial or to work on problem set questions.
 That said, for the most part you can also just use the BCE VM on your own
 machine provided your machine has enough cores, memory, and disk space
 that can be shared with the VM.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For details on starting up an Amazon EC2 instance that uses the BCE VM,
 please se the 
\emph on
AWSsetup.txt
\emph default
 and 
\emph on
startEC2virtualMachine.txt
\emph default
 files in the 
\emph on
howtos
\emph default
 directory of the class repository.
 Please stop or terminate your instance as soon as you are done using it,
 so we don't run out of credits, and please don't run an EC2 instance for
 more than a couple of hours.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
